The shift towards continuous care is straining medical professionals' time, burdening healthcare and long-term social care systems. Consistent monitoring during pregnancy is crucial due to the impact of a woman's lifestyle on maternal and fetal health. Pregnancy complications, posing risks like preterm birth and low birth weight, necessitate thorough surveillance. Utilizing IoT, e-health devices, and wearable technology enables real-time health tracking, providing valuable insights and alerts. Fog processing ensures secure data exchange between patients and healthcare providers while minimizing costs and bandwidth pressures. It facilitates right-time notifications to practitioners, 360-degree patient dashboards, and secure data storage in the cloud, enhancing resource efficiency, increasing productivity, and reducing costs per patient. An on-premise fog computing system for healthcare system has been proposed by implementing load balancing algorithms using iFogSim. The study discusses and presents the most ideal topology for this use case which is not only easier to implement in real-time but also proves to have lower costs, smaller carbon footprints and faster real-time processing of sensor data for healthcare applications.

iFogSim was used to implement the proposed architecture. The existing examples in the iFogSim toolkit was made use of and the proposed use case was built upon it. 3 topologies were designed and compared for the most ideal architecture for building the healthcare system, which had the least latency and high computational speed and where energy efficiency and execution time are perfectly balanced .
